# Åzone Futures Market
The Åzone (_pron. "Ozone"_) Futures Market connects an online simulated futures investment market with physical installations to collectively interpret the myriad effects of emerging technologies.

Visit the [wiki](https://github.com/AOzone/AOzone-Futures-Market/wiki) for details.

### Abstract
New technologies that challenge our social foundations are entering our lives at an increasing rate, destabilizing the worldviews, institutions, ethics and practices that have structured our collective experience for centuries. This acceleration exceeds the limits of our capacity to understand and thereby to steward the lives we want to live. The Åzone Futures Market provides a public testing ground to learn about and experiment with the potential effects of some of the most transformative of these technologies in a simulated stock market. Including dynamic pricing, crowd-sourced news feeds, and market interpretation and manipulation, it will provide investors with the apparatus to take a position on the future they wish to live and to track its development in the present. Artists, architects, designers, technologists and writers will contribute trend analyses and investment strategies to articulate the consequences of certain positions, as well as prizes for various accomplishments. Guggenheim curators will select investors to profile and invite as advisers on an upcoming exhibition that the market will inform.


### About
The present is drowning in the future. The acceleration of techno-scientific innovation has simultaneously catalyzed and collided with planetary scale networked computing. This speeding up of speed minimizes the effects of distance while distance itself continues to shrink in an ever-tightening self-reinforcing loop. Lifting more and more of material reality into abstraction through software or financial acrobatics only further reduces the friction, increasing the volatility of the resultant irruptive historicity in which radically different futures lurk under every stone ready to be released by the slightest kick. What is becomes indistinguishable from what could be when every step can be either or.

This anachronism outstrips our human capacity to understand it. The interval between next and now has shrunk to less than the frame rate of our cultural apparatus, the communication commons that allows us to perform our identity socially. The explosion of the Culture Industry from normalizing entertainment to expressive digital platforms tragically democratized cultural production by pegging it to the same unstable system that presents this aporia. Our principal means of constructing meaning has become a factory for memes. Conditioned by the same tempestuousness that assaults our sensibility, our ability to understand this system depends on our ability to inhabit it. As humanity is defined by its cognitive supremacy, failing the latter is dehumanizing, a new class of death sentence in a world of bots.

This liquid ground of cultural fluidity requires constant treading just to stay afloat. Lacking a stable present order, positioning is no longer a matter of taking a stance, but of exploring new territory. Fixity is upgraded to directionality. Where you are going becomes who you are. The production of information, the base commodity of this new economy, structures this re-wiring. Immersion in relevant flows trumps acquisition of fundamental knowledge. Experimental tinkering bests long term planning. Just as the planet has definitively told us that it is scarce, success has come to depend on a worldview of abundance. The gap between those who can dominate this system and those who will be replaced by it will continue to widen.

Just as the market has come to dominate life, then, life has come to resemble the contemporary market. Global, high speed, volatile and increasingly artificial, there are no more underlying assets. The slightest perturbations trigger butterfly effects around the world. New emoticons birth new emotions. New platforms birth new people. This liberation of speculation for all is a new form of freedom, while the incapacity to understand its effects is a new form of control. The slivers of opacity that remain in this otherwise open and transparent world harbor new despots. But it doesn't have to be a nightmare. If our understanding can catch up, if we can train our practice to participate in its machinations, perhaps we can convert this machine for generating anxiety into an apparatus for uplifting society.

This has always been the role of the modern museum. As modernization moved life further into abstraction, abstraction in art became a means of making sense of increasingly alienating environments. Museums performed the task of concentrating and interpreting, becoming social condensers fueled by art. Museological practice depended on architecture. The appropriate building could store collections, frame exhibitions, house discourse, and broadcast the civilizing function of it all. No client fusses more over architecture than a museum. Their façade beams, their doors are the gatekeepers of prestige, their steps elevate, their light enlightens, their walls extend to the heavens. But this formula portends a fixed order. For a world on the move, the architecture of the museum must transform.

Åzone is an experiment initiated by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and Museum to test a new format for producing culture in response to an increasingly fluid world order. Instigated at a retreat on the Åland Islands, an autonomous and decentralized territory of Finland in the Baltic Sea, Åzone (pronounced "Ozone") is a testing ground that exacerbates the conditions of an increasingly unstable world through a complex of people, events, and technologies. Driven by an imperative to educate a general public by constructing new museum practices, it is at once an experimental curatorial apparatus and exhibition.

The Åzone Futures Market, the first Åzone project, is an online platform for discussing a selection of foreseeable future conditions with radical implications for our way of life–such as extrastate citizenship, genetic hacking or computational superintelligence–in the form of a simulated stock market. The rapid uptake of new social media platforms evidences our facility in learning new systems of information exchange. Basing the Åzone Futures Market on a simplified yet realistic market dynamic exploits this tendency not for corporate gain but in order to introduce concepts and techniques of investing to a lay public through a discourse on the types of futures that are currently being heavily invested in. Constructing a portfolio of futures is akin to taking a position on their development. Rewarded for making their motives transparent by attaching information to their trades, investors win by sharing understanding rather than hoarding it.

The Åzone Futures Market is also designed as a machine to curate an exhibition at the Guggenheim Bilbao in 2017 that may travel to New York in 2018. The market will become a radar of information sorted by public opinion on the topics to be explored in the exhibition. The exhibition curators will monitor the market, provide commentary and manipulate it to test emerging hypotheses through central banking controls, regulation and releasing trading bots into the ecosystem. The leaders in the market, defined both by overall portfolio value in the simulated currency, and through more creative measures, will be interviewed about their insights and profiled. After the first market season, in the late winter of 2016, the leaders of these various measures will be invited to meet with the curators to discuss the exhibition as advisers.

Finally, the Åzone Futures Market will be a form of exhibition itself. The Guggenheim will invite artists of various media to contribute as market architects by producing content, analysis and incentives. Contributors may issue new futures or create trend compasses to monitor market behavior. They may also create investment funds that encapsulate worldviews–such as transhumanism, post-capitalist, or commonist–which will hedge futures against each other in indices that are both educational and will be potential investment options for investors. Contributors may also create market rewards, defining precise behaviors that they think should be incentivized, designing the rewards themselves. Finally, a Bloomberg-like interactive terminal for the market, illustrating trends and providing advice, will be installed at physical locations around the world for local users to get a more robust image of the market.
